feat(orchestrator): workflow as template (#383)
redhat-developer/rhdh-plugins: workspaces/orchestrator/plugins/scaffolder-backend-module-orchestrator/README.md

# backstage-plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-orchestrator

> The Orchestrator module for [@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend) providing actions callable from the [Backstage templates](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/).

Reviewer: `s/providing/provides/` ?

Author: done

An example of using these actions can be found in the `workspaces/orchestrator/entities/convertWorkflowToTemplate.yaml` template.

## Installation

### As a static plugin

In `packages/backend/src/index.ts`:

```
backend.add(import('backstage-plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-orchestrator'));
```

# The software template generating templates from workflows - convertWorkflowToTemplate

The `workspaces/orchestrator/entities/convertWorkflowToTemplate.yaml` scaffolder software template is used for generating templates to be used to execute a serverless workflow via the Orchestrator.

> The generated template is a yaml document which is pushed to a GitHub repository for its later consumption by the Backstage.

Reviewer: `s/for its later/for later` ?

Author: done

The only specific input parameter is the `workflowId` of the desired workflow.

The rest of parameters cover details about the target GitHub repository to either create a new repo or push a PR to an existing one.

> The generated template yaml is accompanied by a README file highlighting instructions how to register the new template in the Backstage catalog.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The generated yaml template is accompanied by a README file with instructions on how to register the new template in the Backstage catalog.
```

Author: done

## Important Note on Template Input Structure

The structure of the template input differs from that of the page used for collecting input parameters for workflows, despite some similarities. These two pages are supported by distinct implementations. While the set of parameters should remain consistent, their visual representation and especially grouping into steps may vary.

## What is a workflow ID

The `[workflowId]` matches the identifier from the workflow definition.
For example, in the [workflow definition](https://github.com/rhdhorchestrator/serverless-workflows/blob/main/workflows/greeting/greeting.sw.yaml) below, the identifier is `greeting`:

```yaml greeting.sw.yaml
id: greeting
version: '1.0'
specVersion: '0.8'
name: Greeting workflow
description: YAML based greeting workflow
annotations:
  - 'workflow-type/infrastructure'
dataInputSchema: 'schemas/greeting.sw.input-schema.json'
extensions:
  - extensionid: workflow-output-schema
    outputSchema: schemas/workflow-output-schema.json
```

## GitHub integration

> The `convertWorkflowToTemplate.yaml` template push the result into a GitHub repository.

Reviewer: `s/push/pushes/`

> To make it working, the [Backstage integration with GitHub](https://backstage.io/docs/integrations/github/locations) needs to be properly set.

Reviewer: `s/working/work/`

In a nutshell:

- add `@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-github` to your `backend` application, sort of:

```bash
yarn --cwd packages/backend add @backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-github
```

> In `packages/backend/src/index.ts`:

Reviewer: missing bullet point?

```
backend.add(import('@backstage/plugin-scaffolder-backend-module-github'));
```

- generate GitHub access token, e.g. via https://github.com/settings/personal-access-tokens and set

```bash
export GITHUB_TOKEN=.......
```

- configure `app-config.yaml`:

```
integrations:
  github:
    - token: ${GITHUB_TOKEN}
```

## Resources

- [Upstream documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/builtin-actions)

# Hints

> Mind using `export NODE_OPTIONS="${NODE_OPTIONS:-} --no-node-snapshot"` before running the Backstage backend app with Node 20+ (per actual [warning in the upstream documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/#getting-started)) - this might be changed in the future.

Reviewer: I would suggest rewording this sentence to highlight the "root cause". Something like:

"Before running the Backstage backend app with **Node 20+**, be sure to execute `export NODE_OPTIONS="${NODE_OPTIONS:-} --no-node-snapshot"` (as recommended in the [upstream documentation](https://backstage.io/docs/features/software-templates/#getting-started)) - this might be changed in the future."

Author: thanks
